# iFood Data Business Analyst Test


In this project, we are given a sample dataset, that mocks metainformation on the customer and on iFood campaign interactions with that customer. The challenge is to understand the data, find business opportunities & insights and to propose any data driven action to optimize the campaigns results & generate value to the company.

## Getting Started

This project does not require the installation of any library in oder to see the notebooks. However, if you want to run it, there might be a few python that need to be installed.

# Project Details
### Problem Statement

Consider a well-established company operating in the retail food sector. Presently they have around several hundred thousands of registered customers and serve almost one million consumers a year. They sell products from 5 major categories: wines, rare meat products, exotic fruits, specially prepared fish and sweet products. These can further be divided into gold and regular products. The customers can order and acquire products through 3 sales channels: physical stores, catalogs and company’s website. Globally, the company had solid revenues and a healthy bottom line in the past 3 years, but the profit growth perspectives for the next 3 years are not promising... For this reason, several strategic initiatives are being considered to invert this situation. One is to improve the performance of marketing activities, with a special focus on marketing campaigns.

### Goals

The goal of the team is to build a predictive model that will produce the highest profit for the next direct marketing campaign, scheduled for the next month. The new campaign, sixth, aims at selling a new gadget to the Customer Database. To build the model, a pilot campaign involving 2.240 customers was carried out. The customers were selected at random and contacted by phone regarding the acquisition of the gadget. During the following months, customers who bought the offer were properly labeled. The total cost of the sample campaign was 6.720MU and the revenue generated by the customers who accepted the offer was 3.674MU. Globally the campaign had a profit of -3.046MU. The success rate of the campaign was 15%. The objective is of the team is to develop a model that predicts customer behavior and to apply it to the rest of the customer base. Hopefully the model will allow the company to cherry pick the customers that are most likely to purchase the offer while leaving out the non-respondents, making the next campaign highly profitable. Moreover, other than maximizing the profit of the campaign, the CMO is interested in understanding to study the characteristic features of those customers who are willing to buy the gadget.

Key goals are:
- Explore the data – be creative and pay attention to the details. You need to provide the marketing team a better understanding of the characteristic features of respondents;
- Propose and describe a customer segmentation based on customers behaviors;
- Create a predictive model which allows the company to maximize the profit of the next marketing campaign.

# Main Files
* [EDA](https://github.com/mgermy/project_model_cluster/blob/master/EDA.ipynb) - EDA with first insights regarding the data
* [Customer Segmentation](https://github.com/mgermy/project_model_cluster/blob/master/customer_seg.ipynb) - Customer segmentation applying clustering analysis
* [Model](https://github.com/mgermy/project_model_cluster/blob/master/model.ipynb) - Machine learning modeling
